Hey, today we're going to talk about how Hey, today we're going to talk about how we taught agents to use good retrieval we taught agents to use good retrieval we taught agents to use good retrieval or how we call it internally closing the or how we call it internally closing the or how we call it internally closing the Oracle gap with knowledge agents. Oracle gap with knowledge agents. Oracle gap with knowledge agents. >> I'm Hannah. I'm an AI engineer at Mix >> I'm Hannah. I'm an AI engineer at Mix >> I'm Hannah. I'm an AI engineer at Mix bread and I'm leading the agentic search bread and I'm leading the agentic search bread and I'm leading the agentic search at Mix bread. at Mix bread. at Mix bread. >> Yeah, I'm Amir. I'm the co-founder of >> Yeah, I'm Amir. I'm the co-founder of >> Yeah, I'm Amir. I'm the co-founder of Mix bread and let's jump into it. So, we Mix bread and let's jump into it. So, we Mix bread and let's jump into it. So, we have seen over the past years with the have seen over the past years with the have seen over the past years with the LLMs just getting better and better that LLMs just getting better and better that LLMs just getting better and better that the reasoning capabilities of the models the reasoning capabilities of the models the reasoning capabilities of the models is growing exponentially. So, just think is growing exponentially. So, just think is growing exponentially. So, just think back how good GPT-3.5 was and how good back how good GPT-3.5 was and how good back how good GPT-3.5 was and how good GPT-5.5 was, right? So, I can clearly GPT-5.5 was, right? So, I can clearly GPT-5.5 was, right? So, I can clearly exponential curve. But, if you look at exponential curve. But, if you look at exponential curve. But, if you look at search over the last 20 years basically, search over the last 20 years basically, search over the last 20 years basically, we see that we see that we see that it's improving, but it's improving very it's improving, but it's improving very it's improving, but it's improving very very slowly. very slowly. very slowly. So, there's a huge gap between how So, there's a huge gap between how So, there's a huge gap between how basically LLMs and the reasoning is basically LLMs and the reasoning is basically LLMs and the reasoning is evolving and how retrieval is evolving. evolving and how retrieval is evolving. evolving and how retrieval is evolving. But, the retrieval tools are the main But, the retrieval tools are the main But, the retrieval tools are the main access pattern for this reasoning there access pattern for this reasoning there access pattern for this reasoning there to get the right knowledge and to be to get the right knowledge and to be to get the right knowledge and to be truly useful beyond code like in legal truly useful beyond code like in legal truly useful beyond code like in legal work, in finance work and so on and so work, in finance work and so on and so work, in finance work and so on and so forth. Internally, we call this gap forth. Internally, we call this gap forth. Internally, we call this gap happening right now between reasoning happening right now between reasoning happening right now between reasoning and search the knowledge gap. And it's and search the knowledge gap. And it's and search the knowledge gap. And it's not just one obscure theory of ours. We not just one obscure theory of ours. We not just one obscure theory of ours. We see that actually with real benchmarks see that actually with real benchmarks see that actually with real benchmarks and real tasks that this gap exists in and real tasks that this gap exists in and real tasks that this gap exists in real world as well. Let's take real world as well. Let's take real world as well. Let's take two benchmarks here, BroSque Plus and two benchmarks here, BroSque Plus and two benchmarks here, BroSque Plus and Office QA Pro. BroSque Plus is like a Office QA Pro. BroSque Plus is like a Office QA Pro. BroSque Plus is like a browsing benchmark where we have browsing benchmark where we have browsing benchmark where we have pre-complex queries and a corpus of pre-complex queries and a corpus of pre-complex queries and a corpus of 100,000 documents and we just try to 100,000 documents and we just try to 100,000 documents and we just try to answer these questions. It's like real answer these questions. It's like real answer these questions. It's like real world deep search task basically and world deep search task basically and world deep search task basically and Office QA Pro Office QA Pro Office QA Pro which has the treasuries of the US which has the treasuries of the US which has the treasuries of the US treasuries of the past treasuries of the past treasuries of the past um um um 100 years basically 100 years basically 100 years basically and we ask really complex question over and we ask really complex question over and we ask really complex question over this. Office QA Pro was created by this. Office QA Pro was created by this. Office QA Pro was created by Databricks and BrowseComp was created by Databricks and BrowseComp was created by Databricks and BrowseComp was created by OpenAI and BrowseComp Plus is a version OpenAI and BrowseComp Plus is a version OpenAI and BrowseComp Plus is a version of it with a fixed size corpus while of it with a fixed size corpus while of it with a fixed size corpus while BrowseComp was over the open web. BrowseComp was over the open web. BrowseComp was over the open web. And we see here's a Oracle performance And we see here's a Oracle performance And we see here's a Oracle performance in dotted lines and Oracle means what is in dotted lines and Oracle means what is in dotted lines and Oracle means what is the maximum theoretical performance of the maximum theoretical performance of the maximum theoretical performance of the models if you would put in the right the models if you would put in the right the models if you would put in the right documents with the question with with documents with the question with with documents with the question with with the question. We see for the question. We see for the question. We see for Office for BrowseComp it's 93% Office for BrowseComp it's 93% Office for BrowseComp it's 93% and for Office QA Pro it's 64%. and for Office QA Pro it's 64%. and for Office QA Pro it's 64%. And now we take something like Codex And now we take something like Codex And now we take something like Codex with its default tools with its default tools with its default tools and want to see hey, what is the and want to see hey, what is the and want to see hey, what is the performance this tools get right now? performance this tools get right now? performance this tools get right now? And you see there's a sharp drop in the And you see there's a sharp drop in the And you see there's a sharp drop in the quality of the answers Codex produces. quality of the answers Codex produces. quality of the answers Codex produces. For BrowseComp it's nine points and for For BrowseComp it's nine points and for For BrowseComp it's nine points and for Office QA Pro it's eight points. So we Office QA Pro it's eight points. So we Office QA Pro it's eight points. So we see that the models are extremely see that the models are extremely see that the models are extremely capable if they would get the right capable if they would get the right capable if they would get the right documents but if you put them into documents but if you put them into documents but if you put them into the noisy corpus the performance drops the noisy corpus the performance drops the noisy corpus the performance drops sharply. sharply. sharply. Meaning that actually the bottleneck Meaning that actually the bottleneck Meaning that actually the bottleneck here is not the reasoning. It's actually here is not the reasoning. It's actually here is not the reasoning. It's actually the access to the right knowledge it the access to the right knowledge it the access to the right knowledge it needs to answer this question. So we see needs to answer this question. So we see needs to answer this question. So we see this knowledge gap in real world. And if you would just drop in way better And if you would just drop in way better search using Mixbread with just a search search using Mixbread with just a search search using Mixbread with just a search tool using latent interaction we can tool using latent interaction we can tool using latent interaction we can recover most of the performance. So for recover most of the performance. So for recover most of the performance. So for BrowseComp the difference between the BrowseComp the difference between the BrowseComp the difference between the Oracle and the Oracle and the Oracle and the uh GPT-5 with Mixbread is just three uh GPT-5 with Mixbread is just three uh GPT-5 with Mixbread is just three point and for Office QA Pro we even point and for Office QA Pro we even point and for Office QA Pro we even almost completely closed the gap. With almost completely closed the gap. With almost completely closed the gap. With giving the model better search tool we giving the model better search tool we giving the model better search tool we can recover most of the knowledge gap. can recover most of the knowledge gap. can recover most of the knowledge gap. But looking at the queries the model But looking at the queries the model But looking at the queries the model asks or writes right now to the search asks or writes right now to the search asks or writes right now to the search system, system, system, it gets super super interesting. it gets super super interesting. it gets super super interesting. So, here's an example query we found So, here's an example query we found So, here's an example query we found uh during some benchmarking, which is uh during some benchmarking, which is uh during some benchmarking, which is senator woman questions billionaires not senator woman questions billionaires not senator woman questions billionaires not a company then okay thank you staff will a company then okay thank you staff will a company then okay thank you staff will check hearing. check hearing. check hearing. It's basically gibberish, right? If you It's basically gibberish, right? If you It's basically gibberish, right? If you have a search system which wants to have have a search system which wants to have have a search system which wants to have neural questions or semantic question neural questions or semantic question neural questions or semantic question and just gets these keywords over and just gets these keywords over and just gets these keywords over keywords, keywords, keywords, it gets confused. And the reason why the it gets confused. And the reason why the it gets confused. And the reason why the models write these type of queries is models write these type of queries is models write these type of queries is they're mostly trained for coding task, they're mostly trained for coding task, they're mostly trained for coding task, like for coding agents, which are then like for coding agents, which are then like for coding agents, which are then optimized for code base exploration optimized for code base exploration optimized for code base exploration using tools like grep. And grep using tools like grep. And grep using tools like grep. And grep just tries to find regular expressions, just tries to find regular expressions, just tries to find regular expressions, right? So, the model tries to just write right? So, the model tries to just write right? So, the model tries to just write as many expression it thinks are in the as many expression it thinks are in the as many expression it thinks are in the document to find the right thing. The document to find the right thing. The document to find the right thing. The second thing is the models are trained second thing is the models are trained second thing is the models are trained to use the web pretty efficiently. to use the web pretty efficiently. to use the web pretty efficiently. And And And to use the web tools properly, which are to use the web tools properly, which are to use the web tools properly, which are highly optimized for humans, they try to highly optimized for humans, they try to highly optimized for humans, they try to mimic human-like query patterns. So, mimic human-like query patterns. So, mimic human-like query patterns. So, just keyword on keyword on keyword. And just keyword on keyword on keyword. And just keyword on keyword on keyword. And number three, obviously, is the number three, obviously, is the number three, obviously, is the benchmark bias. Most benchmarks we have benchmark bias. Most benchmarks we have benchmark bias. Most benchmarks we have right now, like Beer, Nano Beer, use right now, like Beer, Nano Beer, use right now, like Beer, Nano Beer, use Caveman's style queries, which are Caveman's style queries, which are Caveman's style queries, which are entity-based queries entity-based queries entity-based queries that structurally favor heavily BM25. that structurally favor heavily BM25. that structurally favor heavily BM25. So, right now, the agent guesses the So, right now, the agent guesses the So, right now, the agent guesses the keywords to actually increase the keywords to actually increase the keywords to actually increase the overlap between the query and documents overlap between the query and documents overlap between the query and documents and can't really use powerful search and can't really use powerful search and can't really use powerful search tools properly. tools properly. tools properly. >> This motivated us to make our own search >> This motivated us to make our own search >> This motivated us to make our own search agent, to teach it to use powerful agent, to teach it to use powerful agent, to teach it to use powerful search properly, especially to use the search properly, especially to use the search properly, especially to use the right search tools for different use right search tools for different use right search tools for different use cases. cases. cases. Um and to work beyond code search for Um and to work beyond code search for Um and to work beyond code search for knowledge work. And most importantly, knowledge work. And most importantly, knowledge work. And most importantly, the agent should be precise, fast, and the agent should be precise, fast, and the agent should be precise, fast, and cheap. The first step for building this cheap. The first step for building this cheap. The first step for building this agent was to define a very powerful agent was to define a very powerful agent was to define a very powerful harness. harness. harness. Um [clears throat] our harness is fully Um [clears throat] our harness is fully Um [clears throat] our harness is fully built on a mixed back platform. built on a mixed back platform. built on a mixed back platform. Our agent has four main search tools, Our agent has four main search tools, Our agent has four main search tools, which are overview search. which are overview search. which are overview search. This is used as a very wide semantic This is used as a very wide semantic This is used as a very wide semantic search where the agent receives up to 50 search where the agent receives up to 50 search where the agent receives up to 50 retrieve chunks. retrieve chunks. retrieve chunks. Um and it sees only summaries of the Um and it sees only summaries of the Um and it sees only summaries of the chunk contents chunk contents chunk contents to really have just like an overview of to really have just like an overview of to really have just like an overview of the corpus every the corpus every the corpus every uh what exists and to not fill up the uh what exists and to not fill up the uh what exists and to not fill up the context too much. context too much. context too much. Then there is the main semantic search Then there is the main semantic search Then there is the main semantic search tool where the agent gets the full tool where the agent gets the full tool where the agent gets the full payload of payload of payload of the top 10 retrieve chunks. the top 10 retrieve chunks. the top 10 retrieve chunks. Um Um Um it has a filter chunks tool where it can it has a filter chunks tool where it can it has a filter chunks tool where it can sort sort and find chunks based on sort sort and find chunks based on sort sort and find chunks based on metadata facets. And of course we also metadata facets. And of course we also metadata facets. And of course we also have a grep tool for the keyword match have a grep tool for the keyword match have a grep tool for the keyword match searches. searches. searches. Our um agent loop, the harness itself is Our um agent loop, the harness itself is Our um agent loop, the harness itself is very simple and short cuz the agent very simple and short cuz the agent very simple and short cuz the agent should be fast. should be fast. should be fast. But we still wanted it to uh But we still wanted it to uh But we still wanted it to uh have a lot of exploration possibilities. have a lot of exploration possibilities. have a lot of exploration possibilities. That's why we decided to um define that That's why we decided to um define that That's why we decided to um define that it has a maximum four search rounds, but it has a maximum four search rounds, but it has a maximum four search rounds, but within each search round it can have within each search round it can have within each search round it can have parallel searches. parallel searches. parallel searches. So it can start several search at that So it can start several search at that So it can start several search at that searches at once. searches at once. searches at once. Um initially our Um initially our Um initially our agent sees the user query, but also agent sees the user query, but also agent sees the user query, but also already um already um already um results from an initial semantic search results from an initial semantic search results from an initial semantic search on the user query plus um hints on which on the user query plus um hints on which on the user query plus um hints on which metadata facets are available. metadata facets are available. metadata facets are available. Um so that based on this preview of the Um so that based on this preview of the Um so that based on this preview of the corpus corpus corpus the agent can start its search planning. the agent can start its search planning. the agent can start its search planning. It splits its search intent into maximum It splits its search intent into maximum It splits its search intent into maximum four queries four queries four queries um which cover separate aspects. And um which cover separate aspects. And um which cover separate aspects. And then for each query and each search then for each query and each search then for each query and each search intent, it will intent, it will intent, it will pick the best tool. pick the best tool. pick the best tool. Um as you can see like an example here Um as you can see like an example here Um as you can see like an example here on the right. on the right. on the right. Then when um the Then when um the Then when um the results of the tools are returned to the results of the tools are returned to the results of the tools are returned to the agent via deduplicating chunks, so that agent via deduplicating chunks, so that agent via deduplicating chunks, so that it's never seeing several chunks it's never seeing several chunks it's never seeing several chunks um several times to not fill up the um several times to not fill up the um several times to not fill up the context. context. context. >> [snorts] >> [snorts] >> [snorts] >> Um >> Um >> Um and yeah, the next search one can start, and yeah, the next search one can start, and yeah, the next search one can start, and as soon as the agent has enough and as soon as the agent has enough and as soon as the agent has enough evidence to answer the user query, it evidence to answer the user query, it evidence to answer the user query, it submits its ranking. Um yeah, we are submits its ranking. Um yeah, we are submits its ranking. Um yeah, we are just outputs all the chunks that are just outputs all the chunks that are just outputs all the chunks that are relevant to the query in a plausible relevant to the query in a plausible relevant to the query in a plausible ranking. ranking. ranking. So, why does this harness encourages So, why does this harness encourages So, why does this harness encourages better semantics queries and like better better semantics queries and like better better semantics queries and like better use of search tools? use of search tools? use of search tools? Um there are five more main points for Um there are five more main points for Um there are five more main points for this, this, this, which is first the goal framing. The which is first the goal framing. The which is first the goal framing. The agent has to articulate articulate what agent has to articulate articulate what agent has to articulate articulate what evidence it needs before writing the evidence it needs before writing the evidence it needs before writing the query. query. query. Um then the different tools are very Um then the different tools are very Um then the different tools are very important, so it can really use semantic important, so it can really use semantic important, so it can really use semantic search only if it needs aspects, and search only if it needs aspects, and search only if it needs aspects, and also only use a scrap when it needs also only use a scrap when it needs also only use a scrap when it needs exact keyword matching. exact keyword matching. exact keyword matching. Um Um then the then the then the way in which we frame the task of query way in which we frame the task of query way in which we frame the task of query uh writing is an important point. We uh writing is an important point. We uh writing is an important point. We kind of trick the um model into not kind of trick the um model into not kind of trick the um model into not thinking it has to write the typical thinking it has to write the typical thinking it has to write the typical BM25 base query by just instructing it BM25 base query by just instructing it BM25 base query by just instructing it to write one concise sentence describing to write one concise sentence describing to write one concise sentence describing what it wants to find, what it wants to find, what it wants to find, instead of directly instructing write a instead of directly instructing write a instead of directly instructing write a search query, so it cannot fall into search query, so it cannot fall into search query, so it cannot fall into this old pattern. this old pattern. this old pattern. Um Um then we put also provide examples in a then we put also provide examples in a then we put also provide examples in a prompt just to show the a few good prompt just to show the a few good prompt just to show the a few good queries and also how to divide an input queries and also how to divide an input queries and also how to divide an input query into different aspects to explore query into different aspects to explore query into different aspects to explore um the corpus. um the corpus. um the corpus. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What also helps is that we provide the What also helps is that we provide the What also helps is that we provide the original original query semantic search original original query semantic search original original query semantic search results. So, it can see what the corpus results. So, it can see what the corpus results. So, it can see what the corpus is about and really define um see the is about and really define um see the is about and really define um see the language, define where to dig deeper in language, define where to dig deeper in language, define where to dig deeper in which aspect. which aspect. which aspect. The second important step into building The second important step into building The second important step into building our own search agent was of course the our own search agent was of course the our own search agent was of course the training itself. training itself. training itself. So, here for training, we just decided So, here for training, we just decided So, here for training, we just decided to have a very small LLM to make the to have a very small LLM to make the to have a very small LLM to make the agent even faster. agent even faster. agent even faster. So, we are training the small agent um So, we are training the small agent um So, we are training the small agent um to optimize the search strategy itself to optimize the search strategy itself to optimize the search strategy itself to have better tool choice, to have better tool choice, to have better tool choice, um higher quality of semantic queries, um higher quality of semantic queries, um higher quality of semantic queries, more exploration ranking, and to be more more exploration ranking, and to be more more exploration ranking, and to be more efficient. efficient. efficient. So, the first step in training is um So, the first step in training is um So, the first step in training is um supervised fine-tuning with a larger supervised fine-tuning with a larger supervised fine-tuning with a larger teacher LLM. teacher LLM. teacher LLM. And then we And then we And then we uh did on-policy reinforcement learning uh did on-policy reinforcement learning uh did on-policy reinforcement learning with an own search reward. with an own search reward. with an own search reward. Our search reward Our search reward Our search reward is a combination of both of a retrieval is a combination of both of a retrieval is a combination of both of a retrieval reward and a trajectory reward. reward and a trajectory reward. reward and a trajectory reward. The retrieval reward um The retrieval reward um The retrieval reward um is based on like the metric result, is based on like the metric result, is based on like the metric result, typical retrieval metric results like we typical retrieval metric results like we typical retrieval metric results like we call it NDCG, that's the agent's final call it NDCG, that's the agent's final call it NDCG, that's the agent's final ranked list achieves. ranked list achieves. ranked list achieves. Plus also um Plus also um Plus also um an LLM retrieval judging. an LLM retrieval judging. an LLM retrieval judging. We had thought like it gets several We had thought like it gets several We had thought like it gets several rubrics where it decides um rubrics where it decides um rubrics where it decides um if the rubrics is hit or not, the rubric if the rubrics is hit or not, the rubric if the rubrics is hit or not, the rubric is hit or not, which are is hit or not, which are is hit or not, which are if the agent result relevant for this if the agent result relevant for this if the agent result relevant for this query, are all chunks relevant, query, are all chunks relevant, query, are all chunks relevant, and is the ranking itself plausible. and is the ranking itself plausible. and is the ranking itself plausible. For the trajectory reward, we also using For the trajectory reward, we also using For the trajectory reward, we also using an LLM judge and here um an LLM judge and here um an LLM judge and here um is the point to like really improve the is the point to like really improve the is the point to like really improve the tool queries, make it more efficient and tool queries, make it more efficient and tool queries, make it more efficient and to um to um to um improve the quality of the queries. improve the quality of the queries. improve the quality of the queries. Of course, like we have rubrics that are Of course, like we have rubrics that are Of course, like we have rubrics that are where the judge is deciding if the query where the judge is deciding if the query where the judge is deciding if the query is really a natural sentence. Also, if is really a natural sentence. Also, if is really a natural sentence. Also, if the amount of exploration is the amount of exploration is the amount of exploration is sufficient, is it too much or too less. sufficient, is it too much or too less. sufficient, is it too much or too less. Here you can see an example trajectory. Here you can see an example trajectory. Here you can see an example trajectory. You see that in the beginning we have You see that in the beginning we have You see that in the beginning we have the initial search and the initial the initial search and the initial the initial search and the initial metadata hints. metadata hints. metadata hints. Um then the agent did four parallel Um then the agent did four parallel Um then the agent did four parallel searches in the first round and then a searches in the first round and then a searches in the first round and then a second round just a simple grep tool. second round just a simple grep tool. second round just a simple grep tool. And here's an extract of um a And here's an extract of um a And here's an extract of um a trajectory. trajectory. trajectory. Here we see the agent queries. Here we see the agent queries. Here we see the agent queries. Um the input query is on the left. This Um the input query is on the left. This Um the input query is on the left. This is a very long query typical is a very long query typical is a very long query typical rambling style query from the Oblique rambling style query from the Oblique rambling style query from the Oblique Congress benchmark. Congress benchmark. Congress benchmark. And yeah, we see the agent queries here And yeah, we see the agent queries here And yeah, we see the agent queries here for the first semantic search tool. It's for the first semantic search tool. It's for the first semantic search tool. It's really a sentence describing what it really a sentence describing what it really a sentence describing what it wants to find and not a weird keywordy wants to find and not a weird keywordy wants to find and not a weird keywordy added behind each other added behind each other added behind each other formulation. formulation. formulation. The grep tools of course are like The grep tools of course are like The grep tools of course are like typical keyword patterns, which is typical keyword patterns, which is typical keyword patterns, which is exactly as intended. exactly as intended. exactly as intended. Our trained agent is not released yet, Our trained agent is not released yet, Our trained agent is not released yet, unfortunately. However, we have some unfortunately. However, we have some unfortunately. However, we have some intermediate results. intermediate results. intermediate results. Here on the left side for the Oblique Here on the left side for the Oblique Here on the left side for the Oblique Congress benchmark, Congress benchmark, Congress benchmark, we see that we achieved an NDCG of 10 at we see that we achieved an NDCG of 10 at we see that we achieved an NDCG of 10 at 10 of 0.4, which is a huge jump um 10 of 0.4, which is a huge jump um 10 of 0.4, which is a huge jump um towards the model that performed best on towards the model that performed best on towards the model that performed best on the paper of this benchmark, which is the paper of this benchmark, which is the paper of this benchmark, which is the GPT multi-hop agent, the GPT multi-hop agent, the GPT multi-hop agent, and which achieves 0. and which achieves 0. and which achieves 0. 18. 18. 18. On the right side, you can see the On the right side, you can see the On the right side, you can see the result of our beta version of the search result of our beta version of the search result of our beta version of the search agent, which we have right now in agent, which we have right now in agent, which we have right now in production. It's the mixed better production. It's the mixed better production. It's the mixed better genetic search. genetic search. genetic search. And this agent is top one on the And this agent is top one on the And this agent is top one on the snowflakes match QA benchmark, achieving snowflakes match QA benchmark, achieving snowflakes match QA benchmark, achieving an accuracy of 93.4 an accuracy of 93.4 an accuracy of 93.4 when we give the Gemini 3.5 flash model when we give the Gemini 3.5 flash model when we give the Gemini 3.5 flash model our genetic search as search tool. our genetic search as search tool. our genetic search as search tool. And this And this And this uh uh uh this performance was also achieved while this performance was also achieved while this performance was also achieved while having way less effort than comparable having way less effort than comparable having way less effort than comparable LLMs with other search agents. You can LLMs with other search agents. You can LLMs with other search agents. You can check out the match QA leaderboard. check out the match QA leaderboard. check out the match QA leaderboard. These results show that there's still a These results show that there's still a These results show that there's still a lot of room for improvement when it lot of room for improvement when it lot of room for improvement when it comes to huge language models comes to huge language models comes to huge language models and their search tools. and their search tools. and their search tools. And if you want to be part of pushing And if you want to be part of pushing And if you want to be part of pushing the boundaries of retrieval even the boundaries of retrieval even the boundaries of retrieval even further, further, further, um we are happy awaiting your um we are happy awaiting your um we are happy awaiting your application.
