Picture this. Picture this. It's a warm summer night in San It's a warm summer night in San It's a warm summer night in San Francisco. Francisco. Francisco. We are at the new PlanetScale office We are at the new PlanetScale office We are at the new PlanetScale office downtown, right off Market Street. downtown, right off Market Street. downtown, right off Market Street. Sam Lambert, the CEO, is there. He's in Sam Lambert, the CEO, is there. He's in Sam Lambert, the CEO, is there. He's in a great mood. New office, room full of a great mood. New office, room full of a great mood. New office, room full of cool people, he has a drink in hand, you cool people, he has a drink in hand, you cool people, he has a drink in hand, you get the idea. I'm talking to Sam about get the idea. I'm talking to Sam about get the idea. I'm talking to Sam about how PlanetScale gets customers. how PlanetScale gets customers. how PlanetScale gets customers. And Sam says something I wasn't And Sam says something I wasn't And Sam says something I wasn't expecting. expecting. expecting. He says, He says, He says, "I just love Twitter. You would be "I just love Twitter. You would be "I just love Twitter. You would be shocked if I told you how many customers shocked if I told you how many customers shocked if I told you how many customers we get from my own account. we get from my own account. we get from my own account. I work with about 50 startups every I work with about 50 startups every I work with about 50 startups every year, and I know just how much founders year, and I know just how much founders year, and I know just how much founders hate this part of the job. So, I asked, hate this part of the job. So, I asked, hate this part of the job. So, I asked, "Don't you ever get tired of it? You "Don't you ever get tired of it? You "Don't you ever get tired of it? You can't delegate it, you know." It has to can't delegate it, you know." It has to can't delegate it, you know." It has to be you. be you. be you. Sam smiles and says, "I would never give Sam smiles and says, "I would never give Sam smiles and says, "I would never give it up. It's my literal favorite thing to it up. It's my literal favorite thing to it up. It's my literal favorite thing to do." That conversation has been rattling do." That conversation has been rattling do." That conversation has been rattling in my head for days. I think Sam just in my head for days. I think Sam just in my head for days. I think Sam just mentioned the most underrated mentioned the most underrated mentioned the most underrated competitive advantage in startups in competitive advantage in startups in competitive advantage in startups in 2026. It's not your model, 2026. It's not your model, 2026. It's not your model, it's not your team, it's not your team, it's not your team, it's not your funding, it's not your funding, it's not your funding, it's you. it's you. it's you. Quick context on why I'm telling you Quick context on why I'm telling you Quick context on why I'm telling you this. this. this. I'm Victoria Melnikova, and I run new I'm Victoria Melnikova, and I run new I'm Victoria Melnikova, and I run new business at Evil Martians. business at Evil Martians. business at Evil Martians. We're a consultancy for developer tools. We're a consultancy for developer tools. We're a consultancy for developer tools. We have a blog that has half a million We have a blog that has half a million We have a blog that has half a million technical readers every year, and I run technical readers every year, and I run technical readers every year, and I run a podcast about the business of a podcast about the business of a podcast about the business of developer tools called Dev Propulsion developer tools called Dev Propulsion developer tools called Dev Propulsion Labs. Labs. Labs. My job is to figure out the business of My job is to figure out the business of My job is to figure out the business of developer tools. developer tools. developer tools. Building software has never been easier, Building software has never been easier, Building software has never been easier, which means that the bottleneck has which means that the bottleneck has which means that the bottleneck has moved. Now, the bottleneck is the moved. Now, the bottleneck is the moved. Now, the bottleneck is the distribution. distribution. distribution. And today, I want to talk to you about And today, I want to talk to you about And today, I want to talk to you about what works as go-to-market for developer what works as go-to-market for developer what works as go-to-market for developer tools in 2026. tools in 2026. tools in 2026. I say that go to market is you. Well, I say that go to market is you. Well, I say that go to market is you. Well, your personal brand. And I actually have your personal brand. And I actually have your personal brand. And I actually have evidence to back that up. At Evil evidence to back that up. At Evil evidence to back that up. At Evil Martians, we developed product market Martians, we developed product market Martians, we developed product market fit compass. It's this framework that fit compass. It's this framework that fit compass. It's this framework that tells us exactly what needs to be done tells us exactly what needs to be done tells us exactly what needs to be done for a devtool company to achieve product for a devtool company to achieve product for a devtool company to achieve product market fit. market fit. market fit. It's a mathematical formula. We analyzed It's a mathematical formula. We analyzed It's a mathematical formula. We analyzed 37 successful devtools and derived a 37 successful devtools and derived a 37 successful devtools and derived a graph. Basically, it consists of graph. Basically, it consists of graph. Basically, it consists of two axes, product signal and revenue. If two axes, product signal and revenue. If two axes, product signal and revenue. If product signal is stronger than revenue, product signal is stronger than revenue, product signal is stronger than revenue, we need to work on distribution. If we need to work on distribution. If we need to work on distribution. If revenue is stronger than the signal, we revenue is stronger than the signal, we revenue is stronger than the signal, we need to work on the product. If signal need to work on the product. If signal need to work on the product. If signal and revenue are the same, we just go and revenue are the same, we just go and revenue are the same, we just go forward full speed. forward full speed. forward full speed. We work with early stage developer tools We work with early stage developer tools We work with early stage developer tools startups, and nine out of 10 times, startups, and nine out of 10 times, startups, and nine out of 10 times, product signal is actually stronger than product signal is actually stronger than product signal is actually stronger than revenue. revenue. revenue. Why, you ask me? Well, technical Why, you ask me? Well, technical Why, you ask me? Well, technical founders really hate marketing. founders really hate marketing. founders really hate marketing. So, distribution is something that we So, distribution is something that we So, distribution is something that we need to fix. And the truth is, in 2026, need to fix. And the truth is, in 2026, need to fix. And the truth is, in 2026, distribution is really, really hard. distribution is really, really hard. distribution is really, really hard. AI made our inboxes and feeds AI made our inboxes and feeds AI made our inboxes and feeds unpairable. There is so much annoying unpairable. There is so much annoying unpairable. There is so much annoying outreach and generated slop that it's outreach and generated slop that it's outreach and generated slop that it's really hard to tell the real deal. really hard to tell the real deal. really hard to tell the real deal. And it's really hard to cut through the And it's really hard to cut through the And it's really hard to cut through the noise. So, what I invite you to do is I noise. So, what I invite you to do is I noise. So, what I invite you to do is I want you to revisit some of the want you to revisit some of the want you to revisit some of the conversations I had with successful conversations I had with successful conversations I had with successful devtool founders here in NASSCOM and devtool founders here in NASSCOM and devtool founders here in NASSCOM and learn from them. And we'll begin with learn from them. And we'll begin with learn from them. And we'll begin with just basic go to market hygiene. just basic go to market hygiene. just basic go to market hygiene. Uh Uh Uh I will walk you through five simple six I will walk you through five simple six I will walk you through five simple six simple steps simple steps simple steps uh that will create foundation for our uh that will create foundation for our uh that will create foundation for our go to market motion. go to market motion. go to market motion. First, we need to crystallize our value First, we need to crystallize our value First, we need to crystallize our value proposition. We really need to proposition. We really need to proposition. We really need to understand the understand the understand the the painful problem that we're solving, the painful problem that we're solving, the painful problem that we're solving, and we need to validate that value with and we need to validate that value with and we need to validate that value with paying customers. It's very important paying customers. It's very important paying customers. It's very important that those customers are willing to pay. that those customers are willing to pay. that those customers are willing to pay. Then we need to understand where in the Then we need to understand where in the Then we need to understand where in the life of a developer we live. So, we need life of a developer we live. So, we need life of a developer we live. So, we need to understand the shelf space. to understand the shelf space. to understand the shelf space. Once we understand that shelf space, we Once we understand that shelf space, we Once we understand that shelf space, we understand what channels to use to understand what channels to use to understand what channels to use to distribute our product, and we can distribute our product, and we can distribute our product, and we can become the authority on the problem. become the authority on the problem. become the authority on the problem. Then we need to get a good sense of the Then we need to get a good sense of the Then we need to get a good sense of the ecosystem. We need to friend our friends ecosystem. We need to friend our friends ecosystem. We need to friend our friends and cross-pollinate. And we need to know and cross-pollinate. And we need to know and cross-pollinate. And we need to know our foes, so we can distinguish our foes, so we can distinguish our foes, so we can distinguish ourselves from them. ourselves from them. ourselves from them. Finally, this is something that Finally, this is something that Finally, this is something that technical founders really hate to do, technical founders really hate to do, technical founders really hate to do, but this is really something super but this is really something super but this is really something super important. We need to distribute early, important. We need to distribute early, important. We need to distribute early, sometimes even before the product is sometimes even before the product is sometimes even before the product is ready. ready. ready. The first big lesson that we can take The first big lesson that we can take The first big lesson that we can take away from SF-based devtool founders is away from SF-based devtool founders is away from SF-based devtool founders is come to San Francisco. come to San Francisco. come to San Francisco. >> [gasps] >> [gasps] >> [gasps] >> San Francisco is great because here you >> San Francisco is great because here you >> San Francisco is great because here you can meet your clients and friends in can meet your clients and friends in can meet your clients and friends in person. person. person. And there is this whole notion that if And there is this whole notion that if And there is this whole notion that if after YC you stay in SF, you fundraise after YC you stay in SF, you fundraise after YC you stay in SF, you fundraise twice as much, twice as fast. This twice as much, twice as fast. This twice as much, twice as fast. This applies to fundraising, of course. All applies to fundraising, of course. All applies to fundraising, of course. All the VCs are here, so if you're in the the VCs are here, so if you're in the the VCs are here, so if you're in the fundraising game, you have to be here as fundraising game, you have to be here as fundraising game, you have to be here as well. >> Uh I try and talk to folks that are >> Uh I try and talk to folks that are newer in the industry or they're newer in the industry or they're newer in the industry or they're building things and try and chat with building things and try and chat with building things and try and chat with them, and and this is a place to make them, and and this is a place to make them, and and this is a place to make that really easy. So, I think SF is that really easy. So, I think SF is that really easy. So, I think SF is going to stay strong for that. going to stay strong for that. going to stay strong for that. It's very hard to unseat those. It's very hard to unseat those. It's very hard to unseat those. >> And David Cramer, founder of Sentry, put >> And David Cramer, founder of Sentry, put >> And David Cramer, founder of Sentry, put it even more bluntly. it even more bluntly. it even more bluntly. >> I think there's like a network thing. If >> I think there's like a network thing. If >> I think there's like a network thing. If you can get to SF, despite what people you can get to SF, despite what people you can get to SF, despite what people would like to tell you, SF is unfair. would like to tell you, SF is unfair. would like to tell you, SF is unfair. Just do it. Who cares? Who cares about Just do it. Who cares? Who cares about Just do it. Who cares? Who cares about what the internet memes say? Like SF is what the internet memes say? Like SF is what the internet memes say? Like SF is like it's like a network game, right? like it's like a network game, right? like it's like a network game, right? Like especially if you want to like do Like especially if you want to like do Like especially if you want to like do the founding thing or or the venture the founding thing or or the venture the founding thing or or the venture thing, like it is so unfair if you have thing, like it is so unfair if you have thing, like it is so unfair if you have access to SF. access to SF. access to SF. >> Once you're in SF, you have to get loud. >> Once you're in SF, you have to get loud. >> Once you're in SF, you have to get loud. You have to advertise. You have to advertise. You have to advertise. SF is big on the banners. You can see SF is big on the banners. You can see SF is big on the banners. You can see them on the Muni buses. You can see them them on the Muni buses. You can see them them on the Muni buses. You can see them on buildings. There are banners on the on buildings. There are banners on the on buildings. There are banners on the highways. highways. highways. Banners in SF do two things. It's Banners in SF do two things. It's Banners in SF do two things. It's signaling. You are sending a strong signaling. You are sending a strong signaling. You are sending a strong message to the world that you exist. message to the world that you exist. message to the world that you exist. Potentially, you even invented a new Potentially, you even invented a new Potentially, you even invented a new category, and you want to be loud about category, and you want to be loud about category, and you want to be loud about that. Um and of course, you want to earn that. Um and of course, you want to earn that. Um and of course, you want to earn mind share. What this means is that they mind share. What this means is that they mind share. What this means is that they memorize you on a subconscious level. >> And also, it helped >> And also, it helped establish establish establish Type Sense as a Type Sense as a Type Sense as a brand that, you know, because we're not brand that, you know, because we're not brand that, you know, because we're not a BC back company, a BC back company, a BC back company, we don't have funding milestones to we don't have funding milestones to we don't have funding milestones to share to say share to say share to say to say, "Okay, hey, we're we're on a to say, "Okay, hey, we're we're on a to say, "Okay, hey, we're we're on a good trajectory." So, we needed to find good trajectory." So, we needed to find good trajectory." So, we needed to find a proxy for that, and a proxy for that, and a proxy for that, and billboards are expensive. billboards are expensive. billboards are expensive. So, we realized, "Okay, this is this So, we realized, "Okay, this is this So, we realized, "Okay, this is this could be one way could be one way could be one way as an our own credibility mechanism to as an our own credibility mechanism to as an our own credibility mechanism to say that, 'Hey, we're not And and it And say that, 'Hey, we're not And and it And say that, 'Hey, we're not And and it And that's the feedback we also got now that that's the feedback we also got now that that's the feedback we also got now that the billboards have been, you know, the billboards have been, you know, the billboards have been, you know, around for a couple of months, and around for a couple of months, and around for a couple of months, and that's the feedback we've been, you that's the feedback we've been, you that's the feedback we've been, you know, getting is that, 'Oh, I didn't know, getting is that, 'Oh, I didn't know, getting is that, 'Oh, I didn't realize you were this big that you could realize you were this big that you could realize you were this big that you could do, you know, hundreds of billboards do, you know, hundreds of billboards do, you know, hundreds of billboards in SF.' So, in SF.' So, in SF.' So, >> Once you're in SF, of course, you have >> Once you're in SF, of course, you have >> Once you're in SF, of course, you have to do events. And there are different to do events. And there are different to do events. And there are different ways to do this, and probably this is ways to do this, and probably this is ways to do this, and probably this is like a huge separate topic, but like a huge separate topic, but like a huge separate topic, but basically, you can organize events, you basically, you can organize events, you basically, you can organize events, you can come to events. When it comes to can come to events. When it comes to can come to events. When it comes to organizing events, you can do small organizing events, you can do small organizing events, you can do small events, and you can choose whatever events, and you can choose whatever events, and you can choose whatever format you want. You can play paddle, format you want. You can play paddle, format you want. You can play paddle, poker, poker, poker, uh do breakfast, do dinners, do lunches, uh do breakfast, do dinners, do lunches, uh do breakfast, do dinners, do lunches, do boba time. do boba time. do boba time. Uh you can do technical meetups. You can Uh you can do technical meetups. You can Uh you can do technical meetups. You can do launch parties. You can do user do launch parties. You can do user do launch parties. You can do user conferences. There is really really like conferences. There is really really like conferences. There is really really like a lot to a lot to a lot to a lot to tackle there. And now it's a lot to tackle there. And now it's a lot to tackle there. And now it's becoming more common for earlier stage becoming more common for earlier stage becoming more common for earlier stage startups to host their own user startups to host their own user startups to host their own user conferences. conferences. conferences. Uh you can learn from the industry's Uh you can learn from the industry's Uh you can learn from the industry's best. Like folks like Superbase are best. Like folks like Superbase are best. Like folks like Superbase are doing their Superbase Select second year doing their Superbase Select second year doing their Superbase Select second year in a row. in a row. in a row. >> I think everyone >> I think everyone >> I think everyone eventually aspires to have their own eventually aspires to have their own eventually aspires to have their own user conference. And for us user conference. And for us user conference. And for us we have discussed it for many years and we have discussed it for many years and we have discussed it for many years and we kind of internally have a no we kind of internally have a no we kind of internally have a no conference policy. Like as in we don't conference policy. Like as in we don't conference policy. Like as in we don't attend many conferences. We just put our attend many conferences. We just put our attend many conferences. We just put our heads down and do work. heads down and do work. heads down and do work. And then this year, for whatever reason, And then this year, for whatever reason, And then this year, for whatever reason, it wasn't me who chose it. it wasn't me who chose it. it wasn't me who chose it. The momentum built and The momentum built and The momentum built and someone decided that now was the year. someone decided that now was the year. someone decided that now was the year. And I guess there was enough consensus And I guess there was enough consensus And I guess there was enough consensus built that we should do this. >> And do crazy things. Fly a banner over a >> And do crazy things. Fly a banner over a sub. Do a crazy marketing campaign. Open sub. Do a crazy marketing campaign. Open sub. Do a crazy marketing campaign. Open a cafe. Um brand your coffee. Name an a cafe. Um brand your coffee. Name an a cafe. Um brand your coffee. Name an ice cream. ice cream. ice cream. I love a sub because founders here are I love a sub because founders here are I love a sub because founders here are just doing crazy things and they work. just doing crazy things and they work. just doing crazy things and they work. And I think that whenever you have fun And I think that whenever you have fun And I think that whenever you have fun with your marketing, it really really with your marketing, it really really with your marketing, it really really comes through and shows. This one is comes through and shows. This one is comes through and shows. This one is special because special because special because failing actually attracts people to your failing actually attracts people to your failing actually attracts people to your brand. brand. brand. Um everyone wants to be perfect, but Um everyone wants to be perfect, but Um everyone wants to be perfect, but perfect is boring and people just love a perfect is boring and people just love a perfect is boring and people just love a good fail story, especially if there is good fail story, especially if there is good fail story, especially if there is like an elegant recovery from it. like an elegant recovery from it. like an elegant recovery from it. I invite you to think about your I invite you to think about your I invite you to think about your failures failures failures as opportunities. >> starting from scratch, you know, because >> starting from scratch, you know, because you walked away from you walked away from you walked away from ARR of what? 3 ARR of what? 3 ARR of what? 3 >> We had 300,000, yeah. >> We had 300,000, yeah. >> We had 300,000, yeah. >> That's a solid ARR, you know. >> That's a solid ARR, you know. >> That's a solid ARR, you know. >> Especially pre-AI, not terrible, yeah. >> Especially pre-AI, not terrible, yeah. >> Especially pre-AI, not terrible, yeah. >> Yeah, it sounds great. You walked away >> Yeah, it sounds great. You walked away >> Yeah, it sounds great. You walked away from that. You started from scratch. Now from that. You started from scratch. Now from that. You started from scratch. Now looking back at it, are you happy about looking back at it, are you happy about looking back at it, are you happy about that move? that move? that move? >> Absolutely. Should have done it sooner. >> Absolutely. Should have done it sooner. >> Absolutely. Should have done it sooner. Yeah, it's always like, you should have Yeah, it's always like, you should have Yeah, it's always like, you should have done that sooner. done that sooner. done that sooner. >> I mean, sooner would be too early. >> I mean, sooner would be too early. >> I mean, sooner would be too early. >> I guess, maybe. Maybe 2 months before >> I guess, maybe. Maybe 2 months before >> I guess, maybe. Maybe 2 months before would have been better. would have been better. would have been better. >> Finally, >> Finally, >> Finally, um I want to invite you to be um I want to invite you to be um I want to invite you to be unapologetically you. unapologetically you. unapologetically you. Uh Uh everyone has unique quirks, and everyone has unique quirks, and everyone has unique quirks, and if you think about it, your unique if you think about it, your unique if you think about it, your unique quirks can become your genius zone. quirks can become your genius zone. quirks can become your genius zone. Something that comes naturally to you, Something that comes naturally to you, Something that comes naturally to you, something that you're really passionate something that you're really passionate something that you're really passionate about. This could really become a pillar about. This could really become a pillar about. This could really become a pillar for your personal brand. for your personal brand. for your personal brand. Uh the good news is the pendulum is kind Uh the good news is the pendulum is kind Uh the good news is the pendulum is kind of running back to the artisanal. People of running back to the artisanal. People of running back to the artisanal. People love craft, people love beautiful love craft, people love beautiful love craft, people love beautiful designs, people love beautiful text. It designs, people love beautiful text. It designs, people love beautiful text. It really resonates with the audience. So, really resonates with the audience. So, really resonates with the audience. So, despite all the AI automation that's despite all the AI automation that's despite all the AI automation that's available to us, I think people still available to us, I think people still available to us, I think people still prefer a beautiful crafted experiences. prefer a beautiful crafted experiences. prefer a beautiful crafted experiences. So, So, So, for us technical folks, that's that's a for us technical folks, that's that's a for us technical folks, that's that's a good chance to execute. And the way I good chance to execute. And the way I good chance to execute. And the way I see AI is it cannot really replace you, see AI is it cannot really replace you, see AI is it cannot really replace you, but it can amplify your signal, right? but it can amplify your signal, right? but it can amplify your signal, right? So, whatever you bring forward, AI can So, whatever you bring forward, AI can So, whatever you bring forward, AI can amplify, whether that's text, videos, amplify, whether that's text, videos, amplify, whether that's text, videos, whatever it is. whatever it is. whatever it is. I suggest you think about I suggest you think about I suggest you think about your own personal traits and ways in your own personal traits and ways in your own personal traits and ways in which AI can amplify that on your which AI can amplify that on your which AI can amplify that on your personal level and on a brand level, on personal level and on a brand level, on personal level and on a brand level, on a team brand level. a team brand level. a team brand level. People want to buy personally from you. People want to buy personally from you. People want to buy personally from you. Founder-led sales is one of the main Founder-led sales is one of the main Founder-led sales is one of the main motions, especially for early-stage motions, especially for early-stage motions, especially for early-stage startups, for a reason. startups, for a reason. startups, for a reason. That's how trust is built. People want That's how trust is built. People want That's how trust is built. People want to see a real human behind the product. to see a real human behind the product. to see a real human behind the product. Here's what Zen Rocha says about that. Here's what Zen Rocha says about that. Here's what Zen Rocha says about that. >> I feel like I I try not to overthink my >> I feel like I I try not to overthink my >> I feel like I I try not to overthink my personal brand as much, or like have personal brand as much, or like have personal brand as much, or like have like, "Oh, here's my food strategy, you like, "Oh, here's my food strategy, you like, "Oh, here's my food strategy, you know? I just try to be myself because know? I just try to be myself because know? I just try to be myself because that's how I feel like people are are that's how I feel like people are are that's how I feel like people are are drawn to folks that are they try not to drawn to folks that are they try not to drawn to folks that are they try not to impersonate or or or be someone else. impersonate or or or be someone else. impersonate or or or be someone else. So, I just try to be as organic as So, I just try to be as organic as So, I just try to be as organic as possible. possible. possible. >> Your personal brand is the moat. >> Your personal brand is the moat. >> Your personal brand is the moat. Founders that learn to leverage their Founders that learn to leverage their Founders that learn to leverage their personal brand will stand out. In 2026, personal brand will stand out. In 2026, personal brand will stand out. In 2026, in 2030, in 2030, in 2030, as AI gets better, we'll only have an as AI gets better, we'll only have an as AI gets better, we'll only have an ability to amplify that even more, but ability to amplify that even more, but ability to amplify that even more, but it's going to be very hard for AI to it's going to be very hard for AI to it's going to be very hard for AI to replace our unique brands. I would like to invite you to think I would like to invite you to think about you. What are some quirks and about you. What are some quirks and about you. What are some quirks and genius zones that you have? genius zones that you have? genius zones that you have? What are some things that come naturally What are some things that come naturally What are some things that come naturally and organically to you? What are some and organically to you? What are some and organically to you? What are some things that interest you? And think things that interest you? And think things that interest you? And think about how is that could become pillars about how is that could become pillars about how is that could become pillars for growing your personal brand and for growing your personal brand and for growing your personal brand and therefore your company's brand. therefore your company's brand. therefore your company's brand. I wish you the best of luck winning your I wish you the best of luck winning your I wish you the best of luck winning your share of the pie and DM me to talk about share of the pie and DM me to talk about share of the pie and DM me to talk about your go-to-market. Thank you.
