>> Hello, thank you for joining us before >> Hello, thank you for joining us before lunch especially. So, I appreciate it. lunch especially. So, I appreciate it. lunch especially. So, I appreciate it. Uh, I'm David from our AI for Meta. Uh, I'm David from our AI for Meta. Uh, I'm David from our AI for Meta. I'm Danielle. I'm a principal engineer I'm Danielle. I'm a principal engineer I'm Danielle. I'm a principal engineer at Meta. And at Meta. And at Meta. And we have a little set of slides here. We we have a little set of slides here. We we have a little set of slides here. We thought we'd make a make a little thought we'd make a make a little thought we'd make a make a little different experience today. So, instead different experience today. So, instead different experience today. So, instead of non-interactive slides, you get some of non-interactive slides, you get some of non-interactive slides, you get some interactive slides. So, if anyone's interactive slides. So, if anyone's interactive slides. So, if anyone's interested, you can just scan this QR interested, you can just scan this QR interested, you can just scan this QR code. I'll try and make it bigger for code. I'll try and make it bigger for code. I'll try and make it bigger for you. And you. And you. And uh uh uh if you get fidgety, have a go and see if you get fidgety, have a go and see if you get fidgety, have a go and see what this does along the way. what this does along the way. what this does along the way. This is linked up to by the way. So, This is linked up to by the way. So, This is linked up to by the way. So, instead of slides, each NPC will reveal instead of slides, each NPC will reveal instead of slides, each NPC will reveal the slide content. So, depending on how the slide content. So, depending on how the slide content. So, depending on how chaotic you want things to be, chaotic you want things to be, chaotic you want things to be, you have control. you have control. you have control. Everyone got that? I'm going to close Everyone got that? I'm going to close Everyone got that? I'm going to close that down. Yeah, so while you guys are getting the Yeah, so while you guys are getting the hang of this, it seems to be working. hang of this, it seems to be working. hang of this, it seems to be working. Well, multiple people are controlling Well, multiple people are controlling Well, multiple people are controlling it. it. it. There's a voting system behind the There's a voting system behind the There's a voting system behind the scenes that will determine who wins. But scenes that will determine who wins. But scenes that will determine who wins. But if you try to yes. It's like a little quest-giving game, It's like a little quest-giving game, but but but before we go any further, the reason before we go any further, the reason before we go any further, the reason we're doing this is that the two of us we're doing this is that the two of us we're doing this is that the two of us are leading some of the AI-driven gaming are leading some of the AI-driven gaming are leading some of the AI-driven gaming creation work at Meta. We've been doing creation work at Meta. We've been doing creation work at Meta. We've been doing that for over a year now. that for over a year now. that for over a year now. And a lot of what we do on a daily basis And a lot of what we do on a daily basis And a lot of what we do on a daily basis is is is using AI to using AI to using AI to help generate games help generate games help generate games for the casual creator, pro creator, for the casual creator, pro creator, for the casual creator, pro creator, and everybody alike. and everybody alike. and everybody alike. So, given that that's our full-time job, So, given that that's our full-time job, So, given that that's our full-time job, we figured that we will take you on a we figured that we will take you on a we figured that we will take you on a little bit of a journey on the games little bit of a journey on the games little bit of a journey on the games that that that David made in just the last 12 hours. David made in just the last 12 hours. David made in just the last 12 hours. So, So, So, now now now we're going to get started. we're going to get started. we're going to get started. So, because there's lunch and the So, because there's lunch and the So, because there's lunch and the previous talks are a little bit delayed, previous talks are a little bit delayed, previous talks are a little bit delayed, so we appreciate you being here like so we appreciate you being here like so we appreciate you being here like David was saying. David was saying. David was saying. But we should also be honest about why But we should also be honest about why But we should also be honest about why you're here and we want to tell you what you're here and we want to tell you what you're here and we want to tell you what kind of value we might bring or not kind of value we might bring or not kind of value we might bring or not bring. bring. bring. So, we're imagining if you come to this So, we're imagining if you come to this So, we're imagining if you come to this talk, you're people that are very talk, you're people that are very talk, you're people that are very interested in games, maybe you play a interested in games, maybe you play a interested in games, maybe you play a lot, or at least you're somewhat lot, or at least you're somewhat lot, or at least you're somewhat interested in how games are made. And interested in how games are made. And interested in how games are made. And even better, if you wanted to make them even better, if you wanted to make them even better, if you wanted to make them in the future or if you made them in the in the future or if you made them in the in the future or if you made them in the past and you you're wondering how AI is past and you you're wondering how AI is past and you you're wondering how AI is going to change that. So, this is the going to change that. So, this is the going to change that. So, this is the kind of talk for you. kind of talk for you. kind of talk for you. But if none of that is interesting to But if none of that is interesting to But if none of that is interesting to you, at least you can just have fun play you, at least you can just have fun play you, at least you can just have fun play the game before lunch and work up your the game before lunch and work up your the game before lunch and work up your appetite. appetite. appetite. But um But um But um now we're going to get going on to the now we're going to get going on to the now we're going to get going on to the real part. real part. real part. In 2026, a lot of you probably have In 2026, a lot of you probably have In 2026, a lot of you probably have either built something like a little either built something like a little either built something like a little game, like a platformer game, or a game, like a platformer game, or a game, like a platformer game, or a Tetris or something on Gemini. Tetris or something on Gemini. Tetris or something on Gemini. If you have not, maybe your kids, your If you have not, maybe your kids, your If you have not, maybe your kids, your moms, your friends have built them. Very moms, your friends have built them. Very moms, your friends have built them. Very chances are it's a very likely. And chances are it's a very likely. And chances are it's a very likely. And >> [snorts] >> [snorts] >> [snorts] >> initially, it's very impressive cuz >> initially, it's very impressive cuz >> initially, it's very impressive cuz within a couple prompt, you're like, within a couple prompt, you're like, within a couple prompt, you're like, "Oh, here is a game. I can I can "Oh, here is a game. I can I can "Oh, here is a game. I can I can recognize this." And if you're lucky, it recognize this." And if you're lucky, it recognize this." And if you're lucky, it works out of the box, but not works out of the box, but not works out of the box, but not guaranteed. guaranteed. guaranteed. But the problem is that as time goes on, But the problem is that as time goes on, But the problem is that as time goes on, you would all see that the novelty kind you would all see that the novelty kind you would all see that the novelty kind of wears off and a lot of what you of wears off and a lot of what you of wears off and a lot of what you prompt is the same. If everybody says, prompt is the same. If everybody says, prompt is the same. If everybody says, "I want a little platformer game that "I want a little platformer game that "I want a little platformer game that looks like Mario." looks like Mario." looks like Mario." Overall, they all kind of look similar Overall, they all kind of look similar Overall, they all kind of look similar if they work at all. if they work at all. if they work at all. So, after a while, it's like, "What's So, after a while, it's like, "What's So, after a while, it's like, "What's next? This is cool." next? This is cool." next? This is cool." So, that's So, that's So, that's um um um Yeah, we're all moving a lot here. Yeah, we're all moving a lot here. Yeah, we're all moving a lot here. So, people want to see what the text So, people want to see what the text So, people want to see what the text actually is. actually is. actually is. >> [laughter] >> [laughter] >> [laughter] >> It's good to just kind of not move for a >> It's good to just kind of not move for a >> It's good to just kind of not move for a while, but while, but while, but I don't know how many people are here. I don't know how many people are here. I don't know how many people are here. Actually, Actually, Actually, I'm not sure how many people are here, I'm not sure how many people are here, I'm not sure how many people are here, but a lot of people are controlling, so but a lot of people are controlling, so but a lot of people are controlling, so it's hard to stabilize, it's hard to stabilize, it's hard to stabilize, which is a part of the game. But the point here is that everybody can But the point here is that everybody can build a game over the weekend, but what build a game over the weekend, but what build a game over the weekend, but what is the next thing? And why What does is the next thing? And why What does is the next thing? And why What does this mean really to the industry? And this mean really to the industry? And this mean really to the industry? And like in our opinion, what this means is like in our opinion, what this means is like in our opinion, what this means is just a lot of people previously who just a lot of people previously who just a lot of people previously who wanted to build games, but were gated by wanted to build games, but were gated by wanted to build games, but were gated by skill sets. For example, I'm a coder, skill sets. For example, I'm a coder, skill sets. For example, I'm a coder, but I'm not an artist. I cannot do 3D but I'm not an artist. I cannot do 3D but I'm not an artist. I cannot do 3D modeling. I cannot draw. I cannot get modeling. I cannot draw. I cannot get modeling. I cannot draw. I cannot get art. But now you can just use Meta art. But now you can just use Meta art. But now you can just use Meta Banana or Mesh you or whatever else to Banana or Mesh you or whatever else to Banana or Mesh you or whatever else to get yourself unblocked. Um same thing get yourself unblocked. Um same thing get yourself unblocked. Um same thing with artists who previously really with artists who previously really with artists who previously really wanted to build games, but maybe they wanted to build games, but maybe they wanted to build games, but maybe they don't have the coding skills and so they don't have the coding skills and so they don't have the coding skills and so they have to wait for engineers or they just have to wait for engineers or they just have to wait for engineers or they just feel like that's not possible. feel like that's not possible. feel like that's not possible. For a set of people that really want to For a set of people that really want to For a set of people that really want to utilize this moment to build more games, utilize this moment to build more games, utilize this moment to build more games, if the barriers are removed, but then if the barriers are removed, but then if the barriers are removed, but then that doesn't mean everybody can make a that doesn't mean everybody can make a that doesn't mean everybody can make a good game. What will make What it will good game. What will make What it will good game. What will make What it will separate a good game versus a bad game separate a good game versus a bad game separate a good game versus a bad game is still a lot of the typical stuff. And is still a lot of the typical stuff. And is still a lot of the typical stuff. And here we're going to share with you some here we're going to share with you some here we're going to share with you some of the tips that we've learned of the tips that we've learned of the tips that we've learned in the last year working on AI game in the last year working on AI game in the last year working on AI game building, building, building, which is which is which is how do you stand out? how do you stand out? how do you stand out? Um Um Um I hope so far you're not too bored. I hope so far you're not too bored. I hope so far you're not too bored. How do you stand out? How do you stand out? How do you stand out? Um here's a few things. Like one is Um here's a few things. Like one is Um here's a few things. Like one is usually aesthetics, right? Like after usually aesthetics, right? Like after usually aesthetics, right? Like after you prompt a few games, you just you're you prompt a few games, you just you're you prompt a few games, you just you're not satisfied with like a little box not satisfied with like a little box not satisfied with like a little box that's purple next to a box that's green that's purple next to a box that's green that's purple next to a box that's green that shows like a platform. There's a that shows like a platform. There's a that shows like a platform. There's a lot of art to that. There's also a lot lot of art to that. There's also a lot lot of art to that. There's also a lot of cohesion to the game you make between of cohesion to the game you make between of cohesion to the game you make between the UI and the stories and then art. Is the UI and the stories and then art. Is the UI and the stories and then art. Is Does it feel like one entity? Does it Does it feel like one entity? Does it Does it feel like one entity? Does it feel like it's feel like it's feel like it's one lives in one universe? And then one lives in one universe? And then one lives in one universe? And then there's also lots of like play tests and there's also lots of like play tests and there's also lots of like play tests and like like like the real people with real feedback who the real people with real feedback who the real people with real feedback who tell you what is good. But um tell you what is good. But um tell you what is good. But um just going to directly go to the video just going to directly go to the video just going to directly go to the video that maybe David can comment on what that maybe David can comment on what that maybe David can comment on what what's the point of this video. what's the point of this video. what's the point of this video. Yeah, so this is the Yeah, so this is the Yeah, so this is the a video from one of our art directors a video from one of our art directors a video from one of our art directors that we work [music] with, Dale. And that we work [music] with, Dale. And that we work [music] with, Dale. And he wanted to demonstrate here example he wanted to demonstrate here example he wanted to demonstrate here example workflow that you can try out, which is workflow that you can try out, which is workflow that you can try out, which is really about using key art [music] as a really about using key art [music] as a really about using key art [music] as a an anchor for the fellow models. So, an anchor for the fellow models. So, an anchor for the fellow models. So, just like game development, you might just like game development, you might just like game development, you might have a stage where you're iterating have a stage where you're iterating have a stage where you're iterating and you come across like a a concept and you come across like a a concept and you come across like a a concept that you really like. So, same thing that you really like. So, same thing that you really like. So, same thing with the models, you can [music] use with the models, you can [music] use with the models, you can [music] use just a single key art image for game for just a single key art image for game for just a single key art image for game for inspiration. In this case, you can see inspiration. In this case, you can see inspiration. In this case, you can see the key art was the key art was the key art was a lovely bear a lovely bear a lovely bear example. [music] And the difference here example. [music] And the difference here example. [music] And the difference here is that you go from being able to, you is that you go from being able to, you is that you go from being able to, you know, know, know, um um It It It >> [music] >> [music] >> [music] >> basically anchors you on >> basically anchors you on >> basically anchors you on um having a an image that you can use um having a an image that you can use um having a an image that you can use for the art style that you can then for the art style that you can then for the art style that you can then filter down [music] to the assets that filter down [music] to the assets that filter down [music] to the assets that you can see here before, but also it can you can see here before, but also it can you can see here before, but also it can also help anchor on, also help anchor on, also help anchor on, you know, what the [music] gameplay you know, what the [music] gameplay you know, what the [music] gameplay could be. So, it actually holds a lot of could be. So, it actually holds a lot of could be. So, it actually holds a lot of information and it's a very simple way information and it's a very simple way information and it's a very simple way to get started and to get started and to get started and >> [music] >> [music] >> allow for the LLM to have some cohesion >> allow for the LLM to have some cohesion >> allow for the LLM to have some cohesion throughout the sessions as well. So, throughout the sessions as well. So, throughout the sessions as well. So, yeah, that's just demonstrating that. So, this hopefully shows you that So, this hopefully shows you that what the difference between something what the difference between something what the difference between something you can prompt or your kids can prompt you can prompt or your kids can prompt you can prompt or your kids can prompt versus a professionally made game. And versus a professionally made game. And versus a professionally made game. And the distance is shortened by a lot the distance is shortened by a lot the distance is shortened by a lot because what David is saying, all the AI because what David is saying, all the AI because what David is saying, all the AI tools that can help you with that. tools that can help you with that. tools that can help you with that. Um Um but another once you get to the basic but another once you get to the basic but another once you get to the basic level of like, "Okay, this looks like a level of like, "Okay, this looks like a level of like, "Okay, this looks like a decent game." decent game." decent game." One of the most important things is One of the most important things is One of the most important things is what will make your game stand out if what will make your game stand out if what will make your game stand out if every game looks polished? What makes every game looks polished? What makes every game looks polished? What makes your game the best, not just better? your game the best, not just better? your game the best, not just better? And what makes it the best is the same And what makes it the best is the same And what makes it the best is the same as everybody know in the AI age would as everybody know in the AI age would as everybody know in the AI age would say is the taste. say is the taste. say is the taste. What it really means to the games is What it really means to the games is What it really means to the games is that that it's not that you delivered it's not that you delivered it's not that you delivered a game, but it's that you have the feel a game, but it's that you have the feel a game, but it's that you have the feel that this is a game humans would like. that this is a game humans would like. that this is a game humans would like. And which subset of the humans would And which subset of the humans would And which subset of the humans would like and why they would have fun with like and why they would have fun with like and why they would have fun with that. Like what are that. Like what are that. Like what are Um Um And then once you reach that level, And then once you reach that level, And then once you reach that level, you're like, "Ah, great. Now I can make you're like, "Ah, great. Now I can make you're like, "Ah, great. Now I can make a game." a game." a game." Now, the problem is that not quite Now, the problem is that not quite Now, the problem is that not quite because now there's introduction of new because now there's introduction of new because now there's introduction of new technology, runtime LLMs. technology, runtime LLMs. technology, runtime LLMs. Um what that means is that while you are Um what that means is that while you are Um what that means is that while you are playing the game, there is a living playing the game, there is a living playing the game, there is a living entity, the runtime LLM, that is entity, the runtime LLM, that is entity, the runtime LLM, that is modifying, changing the game, directing modifying, changing the game, directing modifying, changing the game, directing the game in some way. Here is another the game in some way. Here is another the game in some way. Here is another example of that. example of that. example of that. Would you like to comment on that? Would you like to comment on that? Would you like to comment on that? Our team built this again just over a Our team built this again just over a Our team built this again just over a couple days and this is a multiplayer couple days and this is a multiplayer couple days and this is a multiplayer game where each of the game where each of the game where each of the NPCs here is entirely driven by LLM. NPCs here is entirely driven by LLM. NPCs here is entirely driven by LLM. So, this is the part where the humans So, this is the part where the humans So, this is the part where the humans are setting up a competitive game. It's are setting up a competitive game. It's are setting up a competitive game. It's a four four players playing against each a four four players playing against each a four four players playing against each other. other. other. >> [snorts] >> [snorts] >> And by specifying what the NPC should >> And by specifying what the NPC should >> And by specifying what the NPC should do, giving it a personality, maybe it's do, giving it a personality, maybe it's do, giving it a personality, maybe it's a thief, maybe it's very honorable, a thief, maybe it's very honorable, a thief, maybe it's very honorable, maybe it's very fast. Whatever maybe it's very fast. Whatever maybe it's very fast. Whatever personality it has, now the game is personality it has, now the game is personality it has, now the game is about to begin. about to begin. about to begin. And you will see these runtime LLMs And you will see these runtime LLMs And you will see these runtime LLMs independently making decisions, independently making decisions, independently making decisions, achieving the goal of this game, which achieving the goal of this game, which achieving the goal of this game, which is to get as many cubes as possible. is to get as many cubes as possible. is to get as many cubes as possible. But as you watch, you will see some of But as you watch, you will see some of But as you watch, you will see some of the NPCs will make decisions to steal the NPCs will make decisions to steal the NPCs will make decisions to steal other NPCs' other NPCs' other NPCs' cubes or block other NPCs, kick other cubes or block other NPCs, kick other cubes or block other NPCs, kick other NPCs. These are entirely not scripted. NPCs. These are entirely not scripted. NPCs. These are entirely not scripted. These are runtime LLM-driven These are runtime LLM-driven These are runtime LLM-driven decision-making. So, it just adds a lot decision-making. So, it just adds a lot decision-making. So, it just adds a lot of spice, a lot of dynamic of spice, a lot of dynamic of spice, a lot of dynamic um um ness to the games. Every game is unique. ness to the games. Every game is unique. ness to the games. Every game is unique. Every game is not repeatable. And so, Every game is not repeatable. And so, Every game is not repeatable. And so, that is a new form before the that is a new form before the that is a new form before the introduction of AI in the last let's say introduction of AI in the last let's say introduction of AI in the last let's say 18 months which is now possible. So now 18 months which is now possible. So now 18 months which is now possible. So now we're sort of experimenting a lot with we're sort of experimenting a lot with we're sort of experimenting a lot with this genre of games this genre of games this genre of games where you can see these NPCs starting to where you can see these NPCs starting to where you can see these NPCs starting to fight fight fight with their personalities. You can obviously design the game to be You can obviously design the game to be more spicy more spicy more spicy um or more friendly, co-op or um or more friendly, co-op or um or more friendly, co-op or competitive. And again, the point of these games is And again, the point of these games is that they were previously not in the that they were previously not in the that they were previously not in the industry made it was just not possible industry made it was just not possible industry made it was just not possible to make them, but now the inference time to make them, but now the inference time to make them, but now the inference time is fast enough the models are cheap is fast enough the models are cheap is fast enough the models are cheap enough for us to actually build these enough for us to actually build these enough for us to actually build these kind of games. Again, build over a kind of games. Again, build over a kind of games. Again, build over a couple days. couple days. couple days. So next So next So next um um we're going to share some learnings from we're going to share some learnings from we're going to share some learnings from us driving these teams in the last 12 us driving these teams in the last 12 us driving these teams in the last 12 years uh 12 months. Feels like 12 years years uh 12 months. Feels like 12 years years uh 12 months. Feels like 12 years now. now. now. Um directing teams um across disciplines Um directing teams um across disciplines Um directing teams um across disciplines and what have we learned using AI tools and what have we learned using AI tools and what have we learned using AI tools and how does it change the game building and how does it change the game building and how does it change the game building experience? experience? experience? Um Um briefly the first thing it changes is in briefly the first thing it changes is in briefly the first thing it changes is in the past building games are very the past building games are very the past building games are very expensive because it's a linear kind of expensive because it's a linear kind of expensive because it's a linear kind of process. From one department to another, process. From one department to another, process. From one department to another, first you design and then you go to like first you design and then you go to like first you design and then you go to like art, then you go through modeling, art, then you go through modeling, art, then you go through modeling, potentially you go through animations, potentially you go through animations, potentially you go through animations, you go through coding, but all of this you go through coding, but all of this you go through coding, but all of this is kind of like a linear waterfall is kind of like a linear waterfall is kind of like a linear waterfall model. And what that means is that once model. And what that means is that once model. And what that means is that once you commit to making a game, it's very you commit to making a game, it's very you commit to making a game, it's very hard to revisit the decisions upstream. hard to revisit the decisions upstream. hard to revisit the decisions upstream. That's very very costly. But nowadays That's very very costly. But nowadays That's very very costly. But nowadays because of AI we have achieved teams because of AI we have achieved teams because of AI we have achieved teams that are working in parallel and updates that are working in parallel and updates that are working in parallel and updates and iterations on the games are achieved and iterations on the games are achieved and iterations on the games are achieved in hours, days as opposed to months. in hours, days as opposed to months. in hours, days as opposed to months. What this achieves is just that games What this achieves is just that games What this achieves is just that games are more fun because you have more play are more fun because you have more play are more fun because you have more play test. You have more um test. You have more um test. You have more um time to iterate on the game idea as time to iterate on the game idea as time to iterate on the game idea as opposed to just linearly executing and opposed to just linearly executing and opposed to just linearly executing and this is a game changer. And And the second thing that we've learned uh the second thing that we've learned uh the second thing that we've learned uh on on top of the taste it's just with on on top of the taste it's just with on on top of the taste it's just with LLMs, with runtime decision making, it LLMs, with runtime decision making, it LLMs, with runtime decision making, it the there's a game master that can help the there's a game master that can help the there's a game master that can help you make the game more personal, more you make the game more personal, more you make the game more personal, more interesting for you. For example, for interesting for you. For example, for interesting for you. For example, for myself, I'm not very um I'm coordination myself, I'm not very um I'm coordination myself, I'm not very um I'm coordination challenged. So when I play games with my challenged. So when I play games with my challenged. So when I play games with my friends, I'm always if it's co-op, I'm friends, I'm always if it's co-op, I'm friends, I'm always if it's co-op, I'm always the one that is like tanking the always the one that is like tanking the always the one that is like tanking the team. team. team. And in the past, it just sometimes stops And in the past, it just sometimes stops And in the past, it just sometimes stops me because I feel like I'm just dragging me because I feel like I'm just dragging me because I feel like I'm just dragging the team behind. But if LLMs can adjust the team behind. But if LLMs can adjust the team behind. But if LLMs can adjust that for me, allow me to still play with that for me, allow me to still play with that for me, allow me to still play with my my team and have fun, that is big win my my team and have fun, that is big win my my team and have fun, that is big win that that previously was not possible. that that previously was not possible. that that previously was not possible. Another learning is as we previously Another learning is as we previously Another learning is as we previously said, runtime LLM is going to be a game said, runtime LLM is going to be a game said, runtime LLM is going to be a game changer. changer. changer. But just like any piece of technology But just like any piece of technology But just like any piece of technology the technology itself does not make the the technology itself does not make the the technology itself does not make the product better. We are just like a lot product better. We are just like a lot product better. We are just like a lot of the teams still at early phases of of the teams still at early phases of of the teams still at early phases of exploring how do you use runtime LLM? We exploring how do you use runtime LLM? We exploring how do you use runtime LLM? We imagine a lot of these kind of things imagine a lot of these kind of things imagine a lot of these kind of things like Star Trek, right? You say, "Imagine like Star Trek, right? You say, "Imagine like Star Trek, right? You say, "Imagine in front of me there's a forest and now in front of me there's a forest and now in front of me there's a forest and now I'm hunting bears." And then it just I'm hunting bears." And then it just I'm hunting bears." And then it just suddenly happens. suddenly happens. suddenly happens. We do see that eventually becoming We do see that eventually becoming We do see that eventually becoming reality, but it's not currently the reality, but it's not currently the reality, but it's not currently the reality today. So today how do you use reality today. So today how do you use reality today. So today how do you use runtime LLMs to drive your game to be runtime LLMs to drive your game to be runtime LLMs to drive your game to be differentiating against other games is differentiating against other games is differentiating against other games is still something we're exploring and a still something we're exploring and a still something we're exploring and a lot of people are very interested in lot of people are very interested in lot of people are very interested in this area. this area. this area. But in general, there's lots of But in general, there's lots of But in general, there's lots of challenges. I think everybody, whether challenges. I think everybody, whether challenges. I think everybody, whether you're in the game industry or other you're in the game industry or other you're in the game industry or other industry, what do you do feel is that industry, what do you do feel is that industry, what do you do feel is that every day every day every day AI is changing what you're doing from AI is changing what you're doing from AI is changing what you're doing from the tools from to your code base to what the tools from to your code base to what the tools from to your code base to what good looks like and just keeping up with good looks like and just keeping up with good looks like and just keeping up with that has been very hard, very that has been very hard, very that has been very hard, very challenging um challenging um challenging um but also very interesting um if that's but also very interesting um if that's but also very interesting um if that's the kind of thing that you like, that's the kind of thing that you like, that's the kind of thing that you like, that's going to take you a really long way. going to take you a really long way. going to take you a really long way. Um It's refusing to talk to the NPC now. It's refusing to talk to the NPC now. Um Um And the last bit I'll talk about this And the last bit I'll talk about this And the last bit I'll talk about this kind of technology driven is now you kind of technology driven is now you kind of technology driven is now you imagine we work at Meta like Meta cares imagine we work at Meta like Meta cares imagine we work at Meta like Meta cares about being a platform of millions and about being a platform of millions and about being a platform of millions and millions of piece of gaming content that millions of piece of gaming content that millions of piece of gaming content that will come online especially now that will come online especially now that will come online especially now that everybody can create. One of the main everybody can create. One of the main everybody can create. One of the main challenges is just that through all of a challenges is just that through all of a challenges is just that through all of a agentic systems from the front end where agentic systems from the front end where agentic systems from the front end where the user is prompting potentially to the user is prompting potentially to the user is prompting potentially to runtime the LLM is making decision like runtime the LLM is making decision like runtime the LLM is making decision like the game we showed we showed before to the game we showed we showed before to the game we showed we showed before to the platform serving content, ranking the platform serving content, ranking the platform serving content, ranking content delivering content. Through the content delivering content. Through the content delivering content. Through the whole platform there's a an agents and whole platform there's a an agents and whole platform there's a an agents and agentic systems at play. So that just agentic systems at play. So that just agentic systems at play. So that just means and determinism throughout the means and determinism throughout the means and determinism throughout the whole stack which is something that as whole stack which is something that as whole stack which is something that as engineers, especially at scale, we are engineers, especially at scale, we are engineers, especially at scale, we are struggling a lot with in general, right? struggling a lot with in general, right? struggling a lot with in general, right? Because we're used to thinking that you Because we're used to thinking that you Because we're used to thinking that you write code, you write test, stability, write code, you write test, stability, write code, you write test, stability, debugging against debugging against debugging against a set known a known set of code base is a set known a known set of code base is a set known a known set of code base is what we call stability and scalability. what we call stability and scalability. what we call stability and scalability. But now in these days, if your model is But now in these days, if your model is But now in these days, if your model is changing, model upgrades, if your changing, model upgrades, if your changing, model upgrades, if your prompts is changing, a lot of things can prompts is changing, a lot of things can prompts is changing, a lot of things can in in entirely throw off your system. So in in entirely throw off your system. So in in entirely throw off your system. So how do you even debug that? How do you how do you even debug that? How do you how do you even debug that? How do you um engage with systems like that is um engage with systems like that is um engage with systems like that is still challenge. still challenge. still challenge. But since we have only 2 minutes left But since we have only 2 minutes left But since we have only 2 minutes left and it's about lunch time let's say and it's about lunch time let's say and it's about lunch time let's say something like that is that inspires something like that is that inspires something like that is that inspires David and I on a daily basis is that David and I on a daily basis is that David and I on a daily basis is that this just means that for the whole this just means that for the whole this just means that for the whole gaming as an industry is being gaming as an industry is being gaming as an industry is being transformed is being transformed by AI transformed is being transformed by AI transformed is being transformed by AI and we're day zero. and we're day zero. and we're day zero. So for those of you who have read or So for those of you who have read or So for those of you who have read or seen Ready Player One, this is the seen Ready Player One, this is the seen Ready Player One, this is the moment where we think we're at the moment where we think we're at the moment where we think we're at the beginning where that Oasis can actually beginning where that Oasis can actually beginning where that Oasis can actually be a reality. be a reality. be a reality. So if you want to be part of that you're So if you want to be part of that you're So if you want to be part of that you're going to I do really hope you guys going to I do really hope you guys going to I do really hope you guys navigate to her cuz there's something navigate to her cuz there's something navigate to her cuz there's something very cool here if you navigate to her. very cool here if you navigate to her. very cool here if you navigate to her. Hello, please. Hello, please. Hello, please. >> [laughter] >> Uh >> Uh Come on, please. Can we go to her? Come on, please. Can we go to her? Come on, please. Can we go to her? Ah, yes. Ah, yes. Ah, yes. So I personally love Lububu. Um so this So I personally love Lububu. Um so this So I personally love Lububu. Um so this is the one of those personalization is the one of those personalization is the one of those personalization moments where with AI you can steer any moments where with AI you can steer any moments where with AI you can steer any game towards anything that you want. And game towards anything that you want. And game towards anything that you want. And for me building this moment just means for me building this moment just means for me building this moment just means that you can create a universe of that you can create a universe of that you can create a universe of Lububus and you can be any Lububu you Lububus and you can be any Lububu you Lububus and you can be any Lububu you want, you can collect any Lububu you want, you can collect any Lububu you want, you can collect any Lububu you want. want. want. And last but not least, a little bit And last but not least, a little bit And last but not least, a little bit takeaway before lunch is wherever it is takeaway before lunch is wherever it is takeaway before lunch is wherever it is you are, maybe you've never built a you are, maybe you've never built a you are, maybe you've never built a game. game. game. So then the the task here for the So then the the task here for the So then the the task here for the takeaway for you is the weekend is takeaway for you is the weekend is takeaway for you is the weekend is coming. You can just use any of your coming. You can just use any of your coming. You can just use any of your favorite models, maybe Gemini Manas, favorite models, maybe Gemini Manas, favorite models, maybe Gemini Manas, whatever it is, just try to prompt a whatever it is, just try to prompt a whatever it is, just try to prompt a very basic game like very basic game like very basic game like Tetris or um a infinite runner, Tetris or um a infinite runner, Tetris or um a infinite runner, something that you play and just see something that you play and just see something that you play and just see what what it does. It's going to fail, what what it does. It's going to fail, what what it does. It's going to fail, it's going to bring you delight when he it's going to bring you delight when he it's going to bring you delight when he surprises you and it works really well. surprises you and it works really well. surprises you and it works really well. Or maybe you are the people that already Or maybe you are the people that already Or maybe you are the people that already went through that phase and that's why went through that phase and that's why went through that phase and that's why you're in this talk where you're like, you're in this talk where you're like, you're in this talk where you're like, "What is the next phase?" The next thing "What is the next phase?" The next thing "What is the next phase?" The next thing for for you is probably something we for for you is probably something we for for you is probably something we mentioned prior is to upgrade your game mentioned prior is to upgrade your game mentioned prior is to upgrade your game with art, with UI, with surprises so so with art, with UI, with surprises so so with art, with UI, with surprises so so it doesn't feel like it's something that it doesn't feel like it's something that it doesn't feel like it's something that is prompted out of the gate so you can is prompted out of the gate so you can is prompted out of the gate so you can upload there. But if you're beyond that upload there. But if you're beyond that upload there. But if you're beyond that as well, then if you're engineer that as well, then if you're engineer that as well, then if you're engineer that cares about scalability, then think cares about scalability, then think cares about scalability, then think about tokens. How do you make sure about tokens. How do you make sure about tokens. How do you make sure creators, players, and platform with creators, players, and platform with creators, players, and platform with token economy are going to be profitable token economy are going to be profitable token economy are going to be profitable um um and content safety is one of the bigger and content safety is one of the bigger and content safety is one of the bigger challenges is how do you make sure with challenges is how do you make sure with challenges is how do you make sure with runtime LLM, maybe potentially runtime LLM, maybe potentially runtime LLM, maybe potentially generating images and content, you know generating images and content, you know generating images and content, you know that the content is actually safe for that the content is actually safe for that the content is actually safe for your audience. There's a lot of open your audience. There's a lot of open your audience. There's a lot of open challenges there. Whoever it is you are challenges there. Whoever it is you are challenges there. Whoever it is you are and I mean negative time. and I mean negative time. and I mean negative time. So thank you very much for being here So thank you very much for being here So thank you very much for being here from me and David. Thank you for the from me and David. Thank you for the from me and David. Thank you for the participating and working with the NPCs. participating and working with the NPCs. participating and working with the NPCs. Hopefully you had a little fun and go to Hopefully you had a little fun and go to Hopefully you had a little fun and go to lunch. Thanks. lunch. Thanks. lunch. Thanks. >> [applause]
